Now that we have a good understanding of the invoicing process,
we can proceed with understanding the basic financial impact
of our actions involved in the movement process.
Let’s take a closer look at Project Codes and Project Budget Lines.
This is an example of a Project Code.
The first two letters of the Project Code denote the type of project this is.
For movement operations, the most common types of projects are
Resettlement, Return, Repatriation, Countertrafficking,
Self-Payers, Facilitated Migration, and Operational Support.
The last four numbers are added to the first two letters
as a unique identifier for each project type.
The Project Code can then be further subdivided into categories.
The next string of characters denotes the IOM Mission this specific category is assigned to.
In this case, EG10 refers to IOM Cairo in Egypt.
The next two numbers denote the type of costs that are being incurred.
The most common types are International Staff Costs,
Local Staff Costs, Office Costs, and Movement Operations Costs.
Finally, the last remaining string of numbers are a unique identifier
to denote the exact type of specific expense being incurred.
For movement operations, the most common string is 04.001
which corresponds to Transport Assistance costs.
All in all, this long string of characters
is what we refer to as the Project Budget Line.
The Project Budget Line is also more commonly referred to as
the Work Budget Structure or the WBS.
The WBS is very important.
In relation to the project budget, the WBS serves as a way
for movements to use part of the allocated budget.
The usage of these WBS lines is charged as costs to the project.
We will discuss this process in more detail in the next few sections.